# Capstone - Data Analysis on Chicago Crime Dataset with Census Information

The Chicago Data Portal publishes a dataset reflecting reported incidents of crime that occurred in the City of Chicago from 2001 to August 2018. The CMAP Data Hub provides Chicago community area census information aggregated through the period of 2011 to 2015.

In this project, I examined the data, conducted data wrangling, utilized different charts to identify general trends for the crime cases in Chicago, and applied inferential statistics techniques to the data. Further, I conducted broader correlation analyses between the crime cases and census features such as population, eduction, unemployment etc.  In the last part of the project, I have applied some supervised machine learning techniques to the data and built a predictive model by using demographic features to predict the crime rate per community area. In addition, I have also utilized an unsupervised machine learning technique to label community areas in Chicago and identify a cluster having the highest average crime rate.

The Chicago city government would be the clients of this project. They can use my analysis report to understand the impact of demographic features on the crime rate, and which features play critical roles in impacting the crime rate. They can also use the built predictive model to identify the crime rate for a community area, and focus on a group of community areas with the highest average crime rate. Subsequently, they can mobilize resources more efficiently and effectively, and improve relevant areas in reducing the crime rate for a Chicago community area.

